>> Mathew DesLauriers: So if I go back,
I'll leave this code up in a second.
I just want to go back to this image.
So we're already pretty close to this
we can get to this exact image just by
changing the background,
changing the size of the circles using,
fill instead of stroke,
changing the fill style and so on.
So the next thing we want to do is maybe
create something with a bit more color
a bit more life.
As well as a bit more randomness in
the way that the circles are sized.
So if we go back to our code,
one thing that I like to do is to
set up my data structure and
then render the data structure later.
And so every time I render it,
it's always the same.
And so that's kind of what we're
doing with this UV coordinates.
But now what we want to do is we wanna
give each of these circles an individual
radius.
Rather than all of them using the same
radius of five, we want them to have
different radius, radii or, whatever,
different radius values for each circle.
And so to do that, instead of passing a
coordinate here, just like an array, we're
going to store this array as position, and
we're going to store it within an object.
And this object is going to hold the data
for each individual cell on our grid.
And so,
I'm going to say position is equal, or is.
Assigned to the UV coordinate and
then let's say radius
is assigned to some value and
here is where we can say.
We give a random.value to each radius and
all of a sudden
if we save we're going to get an error and
that's because if we scroll down.
So just so you can see,
it's an object with radius and position.
But if we scroll down, we're still using
this same code, where we're de-structuring
it, expecting it just to be a coordinate,
but it's no longer a coordinate.
So we can instead call this data, and
then I'm gonna de-structure
the data to a position and
radius so that's how that looks.
And then I'm still going to
get an error if I save and
that's cuz UNV isn't defined here.
So I have to then get the UV
coordinate from position so
I can de-structure like this.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
so that's how that looks.
And hopefully you should get back to this
point where things are running again and
the code is working and
you're not getting an error.
If you're getting a white screen,
just open the console, check the console,
there is maybe just
an error in the console.
And everything is still
the same radius and
that's because we're still using
a radius value of five, so
let's use the radius that we specified
here, and what we're gonna do is
we're gonna make this radius relative
to the width of the page let's say.
So we're gonna do radius times width.
And it's gonna be very huge because
we're using five times width and
that's gonna be a big radius.
Or one times radius.
So here instead of using random.value
we're gonna use random.value times,
let's say 0.01 or something like that.
Or 0.02, some value that's small
0.005 even something like that.
So that's what I'm doing here is I'm
just using very small radius value and
it's random.
So each cell is gonna have
a different size to it.
And then down here we're just
saying the radius times with.
And the reason we're using
radius times with is just so
that different screen sizes, it'll be
relative to the different screen size.
So if we ever end up changing
the resolution of this canvas,
it'll still look relatively the same.
And then the other thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna use fill instead of using
stroke, cuz I just like fill
in this kind of situation.
And so remember when you fill, before
you fill you have to set a fill style.
So that's what we're doing here.
So we're getting closer to this image
that we want, but we're still not there.
So I'm just tweaking some parameters here.
But already,
we're getting like something kind of
cool by just tweaking these numbers.
We're getting some sort of
randomness in some sort of grid.
It's kind of looking a little
bit closer to generative art.
That's one of the fun things
about creative coding is that
you can get really lost in just really
tweaking numbers and changing things and
saving things and then changing things
again and then saving things, and
that's something you should
definitely be open to.
That's a really nice way of working.
So like I was saying,
we wanna get a bit more of the organic
randomness cuz right now everything
still feels very grid like, and
one of the reasons why potentially
is that when we use random.value,
we end up with this uniform
distribution of numbers.
We end up with the equal number of.
Of 0.2s and 0.6s if we were to call
this function millions of times.
And so we're gonna use something
else called random.gaussian.
And that's gonna produce
a much more interesting, and
a much more maybe organic
distribution of numbers.
And the distribution of numbers is gonna
be between some where like negative 3.5
and positive 3.5.
And so actually that's gonna
cause an error in our code, and
that's because we can't
have a negative radius.
So we have to just either make
this an absolute value, so
just by wrapping it in Math.abs, or
you can make it Math.max 0.
And that's a different way
of approaching that as well.
Or you can also try and
use a different sort of starting point for
your circle size, so
you could say something like,
my circle size is 0.5 or lets say 0.1 and
then plus random.gaussian.
So that means it's gonna be,
all these circles are 0.1, but
then offset them by some value positive or
some value negative.
And again we're multiplying this
gaussian value by 0.01 just because
without that we're gonna end up with
huge circles and the screen will be red.